so it's now time to start practicing what
we learned about j unit we're going to
do that the series of challenges so what
I'm going to do is start off by creating
a utilities class that we're going
to be using so create a new project as I've
already done in this case i've called it
j unit challenge but you can of course
call it whatever you like and let's
create this new package this new class
rather going to call it utilities
ok so let's create a few methods now
i'm going to start off by creating a
method...
....
...
....that's basically the overview of
what this particular function
does
ok so in terms of the code now there may
be bugs in this code as I type it so if you
do spot any keep them to the back of
your mind for now remember remembering
that we're going to be testing all the
methods in this class using j unit
alright so if...
...
ok that's the first method and again the
idea of this one return a char array
containing every nth character and nth
is a parameter that we pass and when
the source array . length is less than
n we just returned the entire array
that was the purpose of that function
the next function we're going to call
this one public...
...
....
alright so that's the purpose of this
function right so let's write the code
for it....
...
ok so that's the utilities class is
going to be used as a basis for our unit
testing so this is available in the
resources section if you don't want to
type it in let's go ahead now and look at
our first challenge
alright so challenge number one
to set up the test
Stubs you want to create a J unit test
class that contains a test method for
each method in the utilities class that
is being created in this video
now don't add any test code to the
method yet when you run the tests they
should all fail so use the naming
conventions we discussed in previous
videos in this part of the course
remembering that you have to have the j
unit 4 library to this project
so that is challenge one see how you go with
that one pause the video and I'll see
you when you get back
ok so how did you go with that first
challenge hopefully managed to get that
working so what we need to do is
using IntelliJ junit support to create
that test class and then add the j unit
4 library and you can do all of this
manually by adding the methods yourself
and also adding the j 4 library by
using the project structured dialogue
that you saw earlier in this
section but what I'm going to do is place my
cursor on the utilities class
declaration line and hold down alt and
press enter
and going to click on create test
from the pop-up dialog press ENTER
their going to select j unit 4 from
the testing library and the dialog box
reports the j unit 4 libraries is not found
in the module however we're not going to
click on that fixed button and
reason for that is were avoiding the step of
having to go into the project structure
dialogue and selecting compile will fix
the library problem in a minute so the class
name is set to utilities test
automatically and that follows the
naming convention for test classes the
word test in it so we can keep that the
same and notice that the create
test dialogue has options for at
before-and at-after so now you can see what
they mean because of the last time I
went through this earlier in the course we
hadn't discussed what those sections what
what they're actually used for what they
meant but we won't actually add those at
this time and then of course we need to
select all the methods by checking all
the boxes at the bottom of the dialog to
the left of each method we want a unit
test for this case is all 4 of them and
then we click on OK you see that
intellij has now created these units
test class
in the same package as our utilities class
which is of course what we wanted and we
still got this problem here tho of the
references to j unit being unresolve so
all we need to do to fix that is place the
cursor on one of these annotation lines
so the first ones as good as any
make sure you click actually where it's
unresolved the j unit part alt enter
click on add j unit 4 to test path and we
want to use j unit 4 from intellij
ide distribution click okay that should
resolve all the errors as you see now we no
longer have any errors showing now at
this point if you were to run the tests
that all pass but if you recall part of
the challenge was to make it fail so
what we need to do is add a call to j units
fail method to each test method
let's go ahead and do that so...
...
you can see we've got out 4 j unit test
methods now which are all failing and
obviously all got that same error that
same failure message which was just added
to each method
ok so that is challenge number one
completed let's have a look at the next
challenge
challenge number two challenges is to add
test code to the removed pairs test method
to test the utilities . remove pairs
method so this challenge the idea is to
create tests for the utilities .
remove pairs method now this method
accepts a string and removes any pairs
that contains by removing one half of
the pair and you saw when i was typing
in the code some of the examples but
you can see on the screen there the
first input has got multiple a's
multiple d's and multiple f's and the
output has stripped those to leave only
the ABCDEF and in the second scenario
we've got some duplicates c's  and
some duplicate e's and strip those to
leave only one of each
so you want to write the test code the
test the above two scenarios that I've
shown and start by writing a test for
the first set of input output and once
that test passes add a test for the second
input output pair to keep things
simple
you can add the second test to the same
test method but if you want to be strict
about it you could create another test
method for it
alright so that is challenge number to see
how you go with it and pause the video
now and i'll see you when you get back
alright so for this particular
challenge we want to use the assert
equals method and that's because we want
to test the actual value the output from
the method against the expected value
remember that the expected value is the
first parameter so let's look at the
remove paris first i'm going to delete
that failure call now because
we're now implementing the test so we're
....
...
...and
we can run the test in two ways we can
run all the tests which we do by
clicking on a run right over here in the
bottom left hand corner or up here now that
units utilities test has been
selected because we've run it at least
once we could also do it by clicking
over here in the gutter
so let's run this test only by just
clicking on this little button over here
to run just to remove pairs test run
that and see what we get
you can see that we've got a comparison
failure here so we actually got a failure
so you can see that expected to
get ABCDEF but the actual response we
got was nothing it was actually empty sp did
you figure out why thats actually done that
yet what i suggest you do is take some
time now to see if you can figure out
the bug and fix the method before we
proceed so pause the video now
you can fix and figure out why this
method is now failing and then come back
and I'll go through the solution so
did you figure it out when debugging
it can be useful sometimes to run the
code outside a test case let's actually
go back to main dot java and put some
code in there to test....
...
...well that is actually print the
value of each character were examining
in the loop in the removed pairs method
in the utilities class coming down here
remove pairs so when we are going through it
...
let's print out the character their...
....so added a
simple print out there now guess
we could have used the debugger instead to
set a breakpoint inside the loop and
examine string I in this case so I think
print line is easier but you may will
prefer to use the debugger it's
literally up to you here some developers
prefer using logging or print line when
they know the general area where the bug
must be and then if the prints don't help
then go back into start using an
alternative which would be the debug
there's really no right or wrong way here
to bug a problem just use whatever
method works for you
note however that you'll often need to
use a debugger when working on non trivial
applications
alright so we got a print line
added now and we should expect to see
all the characters in the input array
printed to the console
let's get back to our main method and
run it right click to make sure we're
running the main and not the tests
anymore
alright when you see the output they're
clearly something isn't working right
that's because we only see the letters a
B D E and F so no Cs you can see
now we're using a classic for loop if
you go back to our utility test again and
we're incrementing one I by one on each
loop iteration so how can this be so how
can we have actually missed out c in
this case looking at this code now
can you see where the bug is
well here's a hint since we seem to be
skipping letters when we loop code
inside the loop must also be
incrementing I bet you can actually see
it now so the if statement is using the
increment operator which is wrong so the
if condition is comparing the character
position I with a character at position
i plus 1 but instead of writing i plus 1
we used i plus plus which not only
increments i but assigns the result back
to i and that's why we're actually
skipping over characters so let's
actually change that instead of putting
i+ + which change to i + 1
you can see there
let's go back and run our main method
again we can see now that we're actually
getting the entire output the source
string AABCDDEEFF
however we are getting an array index
out of bounds exception so now that we
fix one bug another bug is detected
so one bug masking another bug is
actually a very common scenario in
development and we didn't see this bug
before because we're incrementing i by 2
on each iteration of the loop and
because of that we were never examining
the last character in the array but
now that we're not skipping characters
we try to test the last character in the
array against the next character of
course there isn't a next character so
we're getting an index out of bounds
exception so what we need to do there
looking back at our utilities class and
remove pairs method we need to stop at
string length minus one but that's not
all we have to do we also need to add
the last character to our stringbuilder
because
that character is always safe it's part
of a pair already handled the pair by not
adding the first character of the pair
to the stringbuilder wow that cide was
really really buggy so its a good thing
we're testing it
alright so let's actually go and change
that make those changes now that we can
hopefully fix these errors and
hopefully our unit tests will then
start working and we won't get any more
errors so the first thing we need to do
is instead of testing here for string .
length...
....
...
...alright so let's go back to our
main and run that we've got the right output
and if we go back to our unit tests and
actually just before we do that
in case you're wondering where's
the second f we're not actually printing
that out not actually getting to the
stage of actually outputting that last
character we really wanted to be precise
about it we can actually print out here
so we could do print...
....run that
...
....we're seeing the second f alright
so now that we've got all that we should
be able to go back to our removed
pairs test and run that we get success
we finally got our second challenge
complete and working but there was one
other thing we need to do if you recall we need to
test our second input
let's just do that before we end this
megavideo so....
...
...by the way
you notice now this is now changing little bit
with this source unexpected this is
actually a new feature of IntelliJ and
we're not actually typing that in but
it's just showing what the proposed
inputs and expected values so its really
quite useful that a new
feature that intellij added and here
its actually making a lot of sense is
telling us at a glance this is expected
value we're going to get back
this is the source value being past to the
method and you'll see that in all
aspects of java development in this
version onward of intellij just
confirming our output we went back to be
...and that's because we're
passing...so lets test that
we've got that passing as well
alright so let's finish this video here
now and we'll move on to challenge three
in the next video